---
layout: post
title: What I've been Working on and thinking about since July 2016
permalink: /about/
---

My name is Emily. For the past year I have been a full stack web developer at the National Weather Center, in the [National Severe Storms Lab](https://www.nssl.noaa.gov), where I have built secure front-end apps in React for weather scientists needing efficient ways to view their data visualizations. In the past, applications for these scientist were scripted in PHP by the scientists themselves, creating numerous security vulnerabilities for the lab servers. My apps are front-end only, have closed all server-side vulnerabilities, and have reduced error logs on the lab server from 100s per minute to negligible amounts. I'm proud of that.

Before this job, I was in grad school getting a Master's in Data Science. My [thesis](https://shareok.org/handle/11244/50805) centered around defining user engagement with data by engineering new features from existing ones in order to add nuance to the industry standard of counting clicks and simply measuring active amounts of time spent with a digital product. I explored this using data from an open-world sandbox game known as TUG (The Untitled Game) produced by Nerd Kingdom. My objective was to use a template for a new definition of user engagement to participate in a wider conversation about data science ethics.
- Is it fair to categorize users as "engaged" without getting a sense of how they feel about the product?
- Is it *right* to allow ourselves to believe that users who spend a lot of time with a product, even while active, are doing so because they want to when we may have quantifiable evidence that they are frustrated?
- Do we consider, as data scientists, that our work may be facilitating addicted behavior and even misery? I believe a more robust definition of engagement that considers a user's well being is an aspiration worth investigation.

Overlapping with my time in grad school as well as my time as a web developer, I helped to craft the initial language for a [code of ethics](https://t.co/r8SdY2OKTh) for the field of data science via the volunteer organization, [Data for Democracy](http://datafordemocracy.org/projects/ethics.html). I am deeply proud of this work. I hope to continue to be involved as much as I can with this conversation, as well as sharing the importance of these evolving documents and what they stand for.

I came to tech later in my 20s. I know how transformative it is to learn how this stuff works. I also care a great deal about navigating troubled waters surrounding this field. I have first-hand experience with issues involving **diversity and inclusivity** in tech and tech adjacent domains. Without as many points of view as we can get, products and designs inevitably cause problems beyond those their (probably well-meaning) creators meant to solve. Technology has always been a source of mighty tools for human progress, but any source of might created by humans should also be carefully considered and checked by humans (depending on who you ask, of course, but certainly in my opinion).
